---
title: 'Can a book be conceived as a field?'
date: 2025-10-20
permalink: /posts/2025/10/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - conference
  - textual analysis
  - field theory
---
This summer I was invited by Virgílio Borges Pereira to present a book of readings on Pierre Bourdieu’s work that he was then launching with the University of Porto Press, Bourdieu e os seus livros (Bourdieu and His Books). But how do you present a book of which you are not an author to an audience composed, in part, of the very authors of its chapters?

The task was all the more delicate because, although I am a sociologist and work from a perspective that tries to integrate elements of the way Bourdieu constructs his sociological objects, I am Brazilian, I work in France, and I study objects situated in a space that does not coincide with the Portuguese social space. In other words, I am an outsider to the Portuguese sociological field, vis-à-vis which—and for which—my contribution could only be quite modest.

Yet if this book offers a set of original readings of Bourdieu’s work by specialists in different areas, it can also be treated as a “microcosm” of the French sociologist’s reception. To do so, one might treat each chapter as a discursive position which, if analyzed with the right tools, could reveal how these authors (and which ones) read Bourdieu’s oeuvre, how close or distant their approaches are, and what themes they emphasize. In short, it would be possible to reconstruct the work as a field.

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
